# Assess the effectiveness of government policies to reduce social and economic inequalities in the USA

In order to assess the effectiveness of government policy to reduce social and economic inequalities in the USA, it is important to consider Affirmative Action, the Affordable Care Act, and the DREAM Act.

One way in which economic inequalities have been reduced is with Affirmative Action (AA). AA is the system where preference is given to black, female, or disabled candidates when applying for a job or a university place. For example, many African Americans have had the opportunity to receive high salaries in public-sector jobs such as policing. **However**, some people are opposed to Affirmative Action. They see it as reverse discrimination, and feel that candidates will not be judged on merit when applying for positions. For example, a court case resulted in university quotas for minority students being declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court when a white man sued the University of Michigan, claiming that he had been discriminated against because of Affirmative Action. Therefore, while Affirmative Action has been successful in reducing the minority wage gap, some people feel it is unfair and they have lost out.

Another way in which economic inequalities have been reduced by government policy is with the Affordable Care Act. Also known as Obamacare, the Affordable Care Act mandates that all Americans have health insurance, and provides government assistance for those that would be unable to afford it. For example, 30 million people did not have health insurance before the Affordable Care Act. However, some people who already had health insurance are against the Affordable Care Act. They do not want to be subsiding healthcare for others when they have to pay for it themselves, and have complained of "socialism". For example, at least one candidate for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination has promised to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Therefore, while economic inequalities will be reduced by the Affordable Care Act because poor people will have access to healthcare, others believe it is unfair.

One way in which social inequalities have been reduced by USA government policy is with the DREAM Act. The DREAM Act gives a US green card to a small group of illegal immigrants, who were brought to the US when they were children, are aged under 35, and have sufficient education or experience. For example, ………. **However**, many are opposed to the DREAM Act. They do not feel that illegal immigrants should be given indefinite leave to remain in the country. For example, President Obama had to pass the DREAM Act using executive action because it failed multiple times in Congress. Therefore, while social inequality between some illegal immigrants and Americans will be reduced by the DREAM Act, it is heavily perceived to be unfair.

In conclusion, government policy has been effective in reducing social and economic inequalities in America, but the policies come under heavy opposition from an American public who do not want to see increased taxes to pay for it.