# Assess the impact of government action on reducing gender and/or race inequalities in the UK

One example of government action that has reduced gender and race inequalities in the UK is the Equality Act. The Equality Act makes it illegal to discriminate against workers based on 9 characteristics, including gender and race, as well as others such as sexual orientation and religion. For example, a group of teachers from Dumfries won a court case in which they claimed the local authority discriminated against them by paying male-dominated jobs more than female-dominated ones like teaching. However, the Equality Act has not been successful in eliminating gender inequality. On average, women still earn less than men. For example, the largest pay gap is in the finance industry — 60%, and the Fawcett Society has designated the 4th November "Equal Pay Day" to highlight that, because of gender discrimination, women are effectively working for free for the rest of the year. Therefore, while the Equality Act has helped to reduce gender inequality, it has not been entirely successful.

Another example of government action to reduce gender inequality is offering free childcare. This benefits women who might otherwise have to stay at home to look after their children. For example, the majority of lone parents are women, and the number of female MSPs increased to 35% after free childcare was provided for them. However, offering free childcare has not eliminated gender inequality. Pregnancy still causes women to lose their jobs, despite this being illegal. For example, 40% of women have lost their job because of pregnancy. Therefore, while free childcare has helped to reduce gender inequality, other issues such as discrimination against pregnant women have failed to eliminate it.