# Critically examine the view that the media is the most important factor affecting voting behaviour

One view is that the media is the most important factor affecting voting behaviour. Newspapers in particular tend to side with particular parties and encourage their readers to vote for them. The Sun in particular is seen to be important in the outcome of elections: it backed the winning party in the 2010 General Election, the 2011 Scottish Parliament Election, and the 2015 General Election. **However**, the media's influence is in decline. Fewer people are buying newspapers and instead finding news from a variety of online sources — they are more likely to see a multitude of views. For example, <del>the circulation of the Sun has declined</del><ins>In early 2014, newspaper circulation had declined 13.5% year on year</ins>. Therefore, the media has been an important factor affecting voting behaviour in the past, but its influence has since declined.

Another view is that social class is the most important factor affecting voting behaviour. People from more affluent social classes are more likely to vote Conservative than people from lower social classes, who are more likely to vote Labour. For example, in the 2010 General Election, 4<del>1</del><ins>0</ins>% of <del>C2</del>DE people backed Labour, while less than 30% of ABC1 people did. However, the influence of social class has declined recently, as people back parties for other reasons. The UK now has a multi-party system, with some parties representing causes attracting support from all social classes. For example, in the 2015 General Election, the SNP attracted a large amount of support from members of all social classes in Scotland. Therefore, while social class is an important factor affecting voting behaviour, its influence is declining with the move to a mutli-party system.

Another view is that race is the most important factor affecting voting behaviour. BME voters in the past have been far less likely to support the Conservatives than white voters, even though the political views of BME voters are likely to be more traditionally conservative than the average British voter. For example, in the 2010 General Election, over 60% of BME voters backed Labour. However, recently race's impact on voting behaviour has declined. Many BME voters today will not remember Enoch Powell's infamous "cricket test" that put BME voters off the Conservatives for decades. For example, in the 2015 General Election, the Conservatives achieved record support from BME voters<ins>: 33%</ins>. Therefore, while race has been an important factor affecting voting behaviour in the past, it is declining in influence.

In conclusion, the media, social class, and race have all been important factors affecting voting behaviour. However, recently, voting behaviour has diverged from all traditional factors.