# Critically examine the view that social and economic success has benefitted everyone in China

In order to examine the impact of social and economic success in China it is important to consider Special Economic Zones, the market economy, and education.

One way in which people in China have benefited from economic success is with the introduction of Special Economic Zones (SEZs). Special Economic zones were introduced in 1980 to encourage foreign investment using lower taxation in certain coastal areas in China. **For example**, Adidas manufactures shoes in an SEZ. **However**, migrant workers are disadvantaged. Many who move to work in SEZs do not have permits (a remnant of the discontinued Hukou system), and are not entitled to receive government assistance in their new homes. **For example**, a woman was forced to return to her home province to qualify for healthcare assistance, and another migrant worker was forced to amputate his own leg because he could not afford hospital fees over $40,000. **Therefore**, while SEZs have benefitted the Chinese economy, migrant workers are being disadvantaged.

Another way in which people have China have benefited from economic success is with China's move toward a market economy. As a result of this move, 2/3 of China's economy is now privately owned, and the household responsibility system rewards managers for their success by making them responsible for profit and loss. **For example**, Chinese wages have risen by 20% in recent years. **However**, workers in rural areas have lost out. The end of the 'iron rice bowl' means rural workers are no longer entitled to a state-provided job and housing, and so many are now unemployed. **For example**, 30 million people of China still live in caves. **Therefore**, the move toward a market economy has benefited some people in China, at the expense of others.

People in China have benefited from social success with improvements in education. Education is now mandatory for all with the introduction of the Compulsory Education Act of the People's Republic of China. **For example**, 100% of local children are in education in Beijing. **However**, rising costs of education have left it out of reach for some. Education in China is not free for everyone, and this has left universal education unachievable, even though it is now legally mandatory. **For example**, one kindergarten programme costs around $200 per month, which is more than many Chinese people earn, and school enrolment rate in <del>one rural province was only 30%</del> <ins>the Henan province was only 19%</ins>. **Therefore**, while China is making progress in educating children, it has not yet reached a point where education is benefitting every child.

In conclusion, the social and economic success in China has not benefitted all of its people. It has improved the lives of some (mostly wealthy urban people), at the disadvantage of others (mostly rural poor people).