# Critically examine the view that the UK has become a more equal society

In order to examine whether the UK has become a more equal society, it is important to consider gender, pensioners, and healthcare.

One view is that the government has been successful in reducing gender equality. The Equality Act 2010 make it illegal to discriminate against people because of their gender. For example, a group of teachers from Dumfries won a court case against their local authority because female-dominated jobs such as teaching had not received pay increases that had been given to male-dominated industries. However, gender inequality still exists. Some employers have found a loophole in the Equality Act by providing other benefits to male employees, such as company cars. Additionally, there is still a pay gap between men and women, of 10% on average, but up to 60% in some industries like finance, as women are less likely than men to be in highly-paid jobs. For example, women make up only 10% of high court judges. Therefore, the UK has become a more equal society in terms of gender to an extent, but there is still inequality.

Another view is that government has been successful in reducing pensioner inequality. The number of pensioners in poverty has halved in Scotland in recent years — from 240,000 to 120,000. This is partly due to government provided assistance. For example, free social care and winter fuel allowance have been provided to pensioners. However, there are still a significant number of pensioners in poverty. Other than lone parents, pensioners are the demographic most at risk from poverty, with many unable to heat their homes. For example, each year, 2000 more pensioners die during the winter than other parts of the year. Therefore, the UK has become a more equal society by reducing pensioner poverty, but it remains a significant problem.

Another view is that government has been successful in reducing health inequalities. Government measures have recognised geographic health inequalities and legislated to make it fairer. For example, the Community Care Act (2002) allowed local authorities to provide social care for over 65s if they need it, and all local authorities in Scotland now provide this. However, health inequality still exists. Many services are only available on the NHS in certain places — not across the whole UK. For example, social care and free prescriptions, are only available in Scotland, and even within Scotland treatments available on the NHS differ by area (fertility treatment, for example) — the so-called postcode lottery. Therefore, the government has been successful in reducing health inequalities to an extent, but the postcode lottery is still problematic.

In conclusion, the UK has become a more equal society to an extent, but there are still many problems that the government must address.