# Poverty results in poor health more than any other factor. Discuss.

In order to assess the most important factor affecting health, it is important to consider lifestyle choices and diet in addition to poverty.

One view is that poverty is the most important factor affecting health. People with higher incomes can access private healthcare, like BUPA, which allows them to bypass NHS waiting times and the postcode lottery (different treatments being available on the NHS in different areas). For example, 50% of hip replacements are now carried out privately. However, everyone in the UK has access to healthcare. The NHS provides universal healthcare for all which is free at the point of use. For example, prescriptions are free for everybody in Scotland. Therefore, poverty is an important factor to an extent, because richer people can access better healthcare, but everyone has access to some healthcare.

Another view is that lifestyle choices are the most important factor affecting health. Poor lifestyle choices, such as, smoking and drinking can lead to long-term health issues such as lung cancer and liver failure. For example, a BBC/STV study found that binge drinking affected young womens' health, regardless of income. However, the government has tried to reach out to people to improve their lifestyle choices. One way of doing this is by making people aware of the consequences of poor lifestyle choices. For example, the Change for Life campaign was introduced by the Labour government in 2009 to make people aware of the risks of smoking, drinking, and lack of exercise.

Another view is that diet is the most important factor affecting health. Poor diets can lead to obesity, which in turn can lead to heart disease and other health issues. For example, 1 in 10 people in the UK have fast food more than once per week. However, there is a clear link between diet and income. Poorer people are often unable to afford healthy foods such as fruit and vegetables, while people with higher incomes can and do buy more healthy food. For example, a study found that people with higher incomes eat more fresh fruit, vegetables, fish and fibre than people with lower incomes. Therefore, while diet is an important factor affecting health, it is possible income is the underlying cause of poor diets and therefore poor health.

Therefore, poverty is an important factor affecting health to an extent, but lifestyle choices and diet are also important factors.