# To what extent has immigration been beneficial to the USA

In order to consider the impact of immigration on the USA it is important to consider the impact on the economy and jobs, culture, and public services.

One group that has benefitted from immigration is the business community. Business owners like immigration because immigrants can be employed doing jobs Americans don't want to do, such as fruit picking. They are also more likely to work for lower wages, and work harder than Americans. Furthermore, some migrants set up their own businesses, and are economically successful. For example, 1/3 of all small grocery stores in Los Angeles are owned by Koreans. **However**, immigrants are less popular with some working Americans. Since the recession, unemployment has risen, and Americans may perceive immigrants has having stolen their jobs and lowered wages. For example, there have been anti-immigrant protests and marches, as well as an anti-immigrant organised boycott of Mexico-related goods. Therefore, while business owners are likely to favour immigration, working Americans may have lost out.

Another way in which immigrants benefit America is through culture. America is a country that was founded by immigrants, and immigrants contribute to America's "cultural melting pot". For example, many Americans now celebrate Cinquo de Mayo, originally a Mexican holiday brought to America by immigrants. However, some Americans are wary of their culture changing. They are concerned that they may become second-class citizens in an increasingly Hispanic America. For example, Spanish is projected to overtake English in future as the most widely-spoken language in America, and there have been attempts to introduce a law designating English as the official language of the USA. Therefore, while immigration has contributed to American culture in the past, some Americans are wary of its continued influence in the future.

Another way in which immigrants benefit America is by paying taxes. Many economists have found that immigration provides a net benefit to America — immigrants contribute more to the economy than they take out by earning money and paying tax. For example, one study found this figure to be around $30 billion net benefit to the US economy, and 1/3 of Cuban immigrants earn over $60,000 per year. However, illegal immigrants do not pay taxes, and still use public services. Many Americans do not feel that they should be subsidising illegal immigrants when they are not contributing to the American society. For example, several Californian hospitals have been forced to close due to illegal immigrants using their services, but then not paying their fees. Therefore, while legal immigrants provide benefit to the US economy, illegal immigrants detract from it.

In conclusion, immigration has been beneficial to the USA to and extent, but too much immigration may have negative consequences.