# To what extend is opposition to the Communist Party of China tolerated?

Opposition to the Communist Party of China (CPC) is tolerated in the form of rival political parties. These parties participate in elections at all levels and even occasionally hold positions in the Politburo. For example, Chen Zhu, of the Chinese Workers and Peasants Party, was the first non-CPC minister for 40 years. **However**, rival parties have to be approved by the CPC. There is a list of seven permitted 'democratic parties', including the Chinese Workers and Peasants Party, and the September 3 Society, that are the only ones (other than the CPC), permitted to take part in elections. Other parties, for example the Chinese Democratic Party, are banned -- the leader of this party was recently executed. Therefore, while the rival 'democratic parties' give the appearance of political opposition, in reality they are subservient to the CPC.

Opposition to the CPC government is also tolerated in the form of political protest. *help* For example, protests took place during the 2008 Beijing Olympics. **However**, protests must be approved by the CPC before they can take place. Often, protests are not permitted to go ahead, or are withdrawn by the people who requested them. For example, in 2008, out of 77 applications to protest, 74 were withdrawn, 2 were denied, and 1 was suspended -- no protests were given permission to go ahead. Therefore, while opposition to the CPC in the form of political protest is permitted in China, the CPC can control the extent, and target of the protests that take place.

To some extent, newspapers are permitted to oppose the CPC government. They comment on social issues. For example, Chinese newspapers often comment on the environment. **However**, opposition to the Party itself is not permitted. Newspaper editors usually manually self-censor -- they know instinctively what subjects will be permitted and what will not, but sometimes the CPC will advise newspapers on how to cover a matter. For example, 4 Chinese newspapers once covered a controversial topic with almost identical articles -- likely due to CPC interference. Therefore, while newspapers can oppose government policy on issues, real opposition the CPC by newspapers is not tolerated.