# To what extent is there a link between income and health?

In order to examine the extent to which there is a link between income and health it is important to consider several factors that may affect health: income, diet, and social class.

One view is that income is the most important factor affecting health. People on high incomes can access private healthcare such as Bupa. This allows them to skip waiting lists, and bypass the postcode lottery (different services being available on the NHS in different areas). For example, 50% of hip replacement operations are carried out privately. However, people on lower incomes still have access to good healthcare. The National Health Service provides free healthcare at the point of use to all. For example, ………. Therefore, all people in the UK have access to healthcare, but people with more money get access to better healthcare.

Another view is that diet is the most important factor affecting health. There is a correlation between diet and obesity, which can lead to heart disease, and people who drink a large amount of alcohol are more susceptible to liver failure. For example, a BBC/STV study found that binge drinking is the most important factor affecting health in young women. However, diet may be influenced by income. People with lower incomes are unlikely to be able to buy healthy foods like fresh fruit and vegetables, while people on higher incomes are more likely to eat fresh fruit, vegetables, and fish than people on lower incomes. For example, 1 in 10 British people eat fast food more than 6 times per week. Therefore, while diet is an important factor affecting health, but it may be influenced by income.

Another view is that social class is the most important factor affecting health. People who live in more affluent areas tend to have higher life expectancies than in impoverished ones. For example, there is a 20 year life expectancy gap between Kensington and the East End of Glasgow. However, social class is not just about income — it is also about attitudes. Women are more likely to have a positive attitude toward health than men and get regular breast cancer scans, while men have a high rate of testicular cancer because it is not caught early on. Therefore, social class is an important factor affecting health, but this may not be because of income differences between social classes.

In conclusion, income is the most important factor affecting health in the UK because it influences other factors such as diet.