# To what extent have government policies reduced gender inequalities in the UK.

In order to example the extent to which government policies have reduced gender inequality in the UK, it is important to consider the Equality Act, free childcare, and the poverty trap.

One view is that the government has been successful in reducing gender inequality with the Equality Act. Introduced in 2010, the Equality Act incorporates the previous Sex Discrimination Act and makes it illegal to discriminate against people because of gender. It also bans secrecy clauses, meaning women cannot be prevented from discussing their pay with others, which may have prevented them finding out that they were being discriminated against. For example, a group of teachers from Dumfries won a court case against their local authority when it was discovered that the authority had been unfairly increasing pay in male-dominated jobs while not giving the same increases to female-dominated jobs such as teaching. However, others believe that the Equality Act has not sufficiently tackled gender discrimination in the workplace. There is still a pay gap between men and women (on average 10%, but this varies by industry). For example, finance has the highest gender pay gap: 60%. Therefore, while the Equality Act has reduced gender discrimination, it has not eliminated gender discrimination as it was designed to do.

Another view is that the government has succeeded in helping women break through the 'glass ceiling' — an invisible barrier that prevents women reaching top management positions. The government has attempted to do this by offering childcare to families, and by allowing fathers extra time off so that they can contribute to bringing up their children as well as mothers. For example, 50% of the workforce is now female, and after free childcare and flexible working hours were introduced, the percentage of female MSPs rose to 34.9%. However, many women still leave full time work after having a child. This means they will miss out on important career development opportunities like training and networking. For example, there are still fewer women than men in management positions — while as many men as women are now working, women tend to have lower-paid jobs. Therefore, while the government has prevented women breaking through the glass ceiling to an extent, it has not eliminated it completely.

<del>The government has also attempted to help parents escape the poverty trap. It has done this by providing benefits to help unemployed or low-paid parents raise their children adequately. For example, child benefit and child tax credit were introduced, and the government can now pay 70% of childcare costs. However, some parents still cannot afford to raise their children. Additionally, while a lot of government support is available, it can be difficult to obtain — complicated forms put a lot of parents off when they can't understand how to apply for benefits. For example, The government abolished the Child Support Agency (CSA) when 1 million calls were abandoned when people realise they wouldn't be able to get through. Therefore, while the government has tried to help parents escape the poverty trap, it has been difficult for parents to access government help.</del>

<ins>The government has also attempted to help lone parents escape the poverty trap. Universal Credit, which includes a childcare component, was introduced by the coalition government, and the Child Support Agency (CSA) was introduced to help parents get state help covering the costs of raising their children. For example, 90% of lone parents on low incomes are women. However, universal credit does not provide enough money for parents to escape the poverty trap. Additionally, the CSA was replaced by the government after 1 million people couldn't get through to find out how to claim, and the complicated forms prevented many from being able to do it themselves. For example, a report by Oxfam found that many parents were worse off after Universal Credit's introduction.</ins>

In conclusion, the government has been successful in reducing gender inequality to an extent.