# To what extent do ethnic minorities achieve the American dream?

Lower class Americans, who are disproportionately ethnic minorities, do not get access to good schools. This is because schools are paid for by property taxes, and schools near higher value properties receive more funding. For example, an inner Chicago school received 20% of the funding of a suburban school. **However**, middle class Americans can access good schools. This could be either a fee-paying independent school, or a public school that receives more money from property taxes. For example, many middle class American children are able to attend schools with "magnet" programmes that focuses on science and technology, and helps them to get into Ivy League colleges. Therefore, while ethnic minorities are more likely to have lower income and therefore be less able to get good educations, some ethnic minorities can achieve the education aspect of the American Dream.

Many ethnic minorities cannot access decent housing, and communities are not diverse. This is because ethnic minorities tend to be poorer, and because white people try to avoid living with ethnic minorities. For example, real estate agents have been accused of discouraging ethnic minorities from buying property in predominantly white areas, and if ethnic minorities start to move into an area, white people will often move out -- a phenomenon known as 'white flight'. **However**, an increasing number of ethnic minorities can access decent housing. This is because of an increase in the size of size of the minority middle class, and because white people are becoming more tolerant of ethnic minorities. For example, there has been an increase in interracial marriages among under-35s. Therefore, many ethnic minorities cannot achieve the American dream in terms of a good home to live in, but over time more ethnic minorities will be able to access good housing.

Many ethnic minorities cannot access a living wage. Poor education leads to unemployment, and ethnic minorities are often forced to turn to crime, which is glamourised by cultural influences like rappers. For example, drugs, prostitution and robbery are common among poor ethnic minorities. **However**, in recent years an ethnic minority middle class has emerged. This is partially due to government action -- Affirmative Action has given many ethnic minorities access to high paid public sector jobs such as policing, but also because many ethnic minorities are entrepreneurial: for example, 50% of Cubans in America earn over $60,000 p.a. Therefore, many ethnic minorities do not have the equality of opportunity the American Dream assumes, but measures have been taken to compensate for the ethnic minorities' societal disadvantage.